All right.
So to give you a bit of practice of using the Google Maps API I'm going to set you a challenge and for
once I'm not going to show you what it looks like beforehand.
So need to use your imagination a little bit in terms of design I'm going to keep this pretty simple
I'll just use a basic bootstrap site.
But the functionality is really simple as well.
We want a box for a user to put any part of an address or a town name or a street name and a number
and then using AJAX.
We're going to do a call to the Google Maps geocoding API return the zip code or post postcode for that
address.
It's a pretty simple function but one that people might find useful when you're mailing a car to a friend
or something like that so that it doesn't have to look great but feel free to go crazy on the design
if you want.
Best of luck.
All right.
Hey we got them.
So I'm going to start with my strap for
just to get a very simple layout so documentation and getting started.
And then use the starter template as usual.
And then let's just have a look.
So that's working great.
I'm just going to put a title in which will be a postcard find up that we get.
All right.
Alleve bootstrap open but now we'll go to Google Maps.
Geocoding API
we get
so that top on them we're going to scroll down again to the example.
We gave
it select all of that
and now let's put in our Ajax request
so this should be fairly familiar as we did it just in the previous video.
So we use Tola dot Ajax and then we set up parameters.
So you are well and that's going to be that you will get the API key in a moment and then type is going
to be get
and success we're going to create a function which is going to return some data.
And for now
we'll just look that to the console
so I'm going to go over to the console console developers talk Google dot com and that's where all of
your keys will be stored.
If you need to get back to them so will get to the dashboard.
And this is for my latest project.
So are men going to click Enable API keys and get credentials.
And then click credentials.
And there's my API key.
So let's copy that in there
and then let's run this again and have a look at the console
or got a warning about the bootstrap tool tip tips require a tether that's fine.
We're going can be using those but we do have our response that's fantastic.
So let's get the bits that we'll need and we'll write code similar to what we had last time.
So those are the bits that we're interested.
But we don't want the country this time we want the postal code.
So we're going to have to loop through until we get exactly what we need.
The reason by the way that we don't go straight to number six is that the postal code will always be
number 6 but it will always have a type of postal code.
So that's why we do the looping through Vashon.
All right.
So again we use each and we're leaping through data and results and then zeroing
and then address components
and then when we get there we're looping through each of those until we get to one with a type of postal
code.
So we're going to get that first off by adding a function in here with again a key and a value.
And we're going to be interested in value because value is going to be that right there.
So we're going to be looking at value and then types and then
zero.
And we want to find out when value type 0 is equal to the postal code.
And find out when that's the case we'll just let value long name.
So I was working on a long name and short name are going to be the same.
So I'll stick with long name we go.
So now let's have a look and I've got an unexpected token on line 26.
What have I done.
Yes I've closed the parentheses there when it should be after the curly brackets that.
All right let's try that again.
There we go.
So we've got our postal code.
So now let's put it somewhere rather more useful than just letting it.
So let's write a little bit of HDMI out.
We're going to start with a class of container
just a little bit of text here so post could find and then enter a partial address to get the postcard.
And there we go.
We've got our title and text then I'm just going to for the moment comment out the code to get the post
code so that we can set up our form and I'm going to do that in the usual way.
Going back over to bootstrap and then finding the form component.
So I click on components and then forms
and I'm just going to start off with that big template that we don't need most of that.
Let's take a look.
We can get rid of everything above the button all the way up to that top.
Field set them and then I'm going to change this to address
and we'll just have addresses the label type is going to be text ID address and we'll have the placeholder
as a partial address and we don't need to comment about the e-mail address there.
I'm going to get rid of the type submit for the button because we don't want submit to actually submit
the form.
We're going to process that without javascript.
OK.
So that's looking good.
We now want to change this script so that it happens when the button is clicked that it's get this button
and Id also find post-K and then will uncomment javascript's that
and then we want to check to see whether the button with an ID of find post code has been clicked.
And when it has we want to run a function
which will be our Ajax.
All right.
So for now let's just check that that's linked up correctly to our button.
Wonderful.
It is indeed.
And then we need to change the address here from being the same every time to being whatever the user
has typed into the address field so we're going to get that's
from an ID of address.
So that was up here.
We gave it an IP address and then we went to get the value.
And it's likely that this will have some spaces and maybe some strange characters in them.
So we really want to do something to this to make it you are else safe so that when we put it into this
you R-AL it doesn't have any spaces or are things that are going to break that you are l.
Now a few videos ago we saw within HP you can use a function called you l code to do that but we can
be reasonably confident that there's a J queery equivalent or even a javascript one.
So let's have a look at that top result in code you are components that looks pretty perfect.
Let's use that
now quite willing to write them again.
Great.
And then just before we run that we do need to stop the form from being submitted when we pressed the
button.
And the easiest way to do that is to add an E to refer to the event that calls the click and then we
want to take a and prevent the default thing happening.
We've done that a couple of times before.
So that should stop the form from submitting.
OK.
So let's give this a try.
I'm going to put in one to nine but we road and will submit.
And we've got not my postcode but a zip code of some sort which is promising.
And I'm just going to add a bit more information there.
So if we put Cambridge UK in then we do get the correct postcode and tactics are everything's working
well.
We don't want to have this in an alert though at least not a pop up sort of alert.
I'm going to put it in a nice pretty bootstrap flat.
Let's get back to P-trap get the carried for an alert
it go.
So we'll do our usual thing.
We'll put a div with an ID of message.
And that's where we're going to put our response.
So instead of alerting the postchaise We'll set the message div to have HDMI all of them.
I'm using single quotes there because they're going to be double quotes inside
straining to get rid of that line break them and we'll have something like payscale found
the post code is and then
we'll use
value long name.
Get rid of that line break again and I've somehow got myself an extra double quote at the end there
so I'll just get rid of that.
And then let's give this a try.
So we'll do our one and I would write Cambridge again submit and there we go.
Help would help if I spelt postcard right then.
But you get the idea.
All right.
So we're pretty close now we've got something that works.
Just make sure it works with the correct spelling as well.
There we go.
Beautiful.
One thing we don't have at the moment is if we have some invalid input I actually managed to find a
place code for that with something really long.
I presume it won't be able to find a post code for it yet.
It's just not updating it's all.
And just to prove that in fact if we leave the address blank then at the moment it does nothing.
So let's have another look at what is returned from the Google Maps API.
When an invalid address is sent so I'm going to inspect that to have a look at the console.
So we've got an object We've also got an error message because it's trying to read an array that doesn't
exist but we should be able to stop that happening.
OK so that's pretty straightforward.
We get a status of zero results
let's just have another look at what we get with a success that we get a status of.
OK.
So actually I think it's probably best to check for a status of OK.
And if we've got that do the success otherwise give them an error message.
So what we'll do is we'll check for data status and we'll initially check to see whether it's NOT OK.
And then if it's not OK then we'll update the message.
So I'll just copy this Kate and this time we'll have an alert warning
and we'll just say postcard could not be found.
Please try again.
And if that's not the case then we'll go through our Each loop and hopefully find the payscale.
All right let's take another look then so if I submit something empty postcode could not be found.
Please try again.
Whereas if I put in I normal address we've got the postcard.
Fantastic.
So that's as far as I'm going to go with this.
We've got elegant error handling and the website works as requested and it's worth taking a minute to
just see what we've achieved there in just a few minutes of writing code hooked into a global post code
finding system which would have taken us years to write ourselves and we haven't even paid anything
for the privilege.
So that is the power of an API in the next video we're going to see one more type of API that allows
us to actually log in to an online platform and we're going to do that with Twitter.